## Exponential functions
Exponential functions take the form of $b^x$ where b is a positive real number and x can be any real number. Let's take $b=3$ for example. 

This depicts how a number increases exponentially as the exponent increases. The following represents an exponential function where the base is 3:

- $3^0=1$: Any number raised to the power of 0 equals 1. 
- $3^1=3$: Any number raised to the power of 1 is the number itself.
- $3^2=9$: This represents 3 raised to the power of 2, which means 3 twice or 3 multiplied by 3, which is 9.
- $3^3=27$: This represents 3 raised to the power of 3, which means 3 thrice or 3 multiplied by 3 and then by 3 again, which is 27.

Exponents can also be negative or a fraction. When the exponent is negative it means you raise the number to that power and then take its reciprocal:
- $3^{-1}=\frac{1}{3}$: This represents 3 raised to the power of -1, which is the same as 1 divided by 3 raised to the power of 1, or 3.
- $3^{-2}=\frac{1}{3^2}=\frac{1}{9}$: This represents 3 raised to the power of -2, which is the same as 1 divided by 3 raised to the power of 2, or 9.

In the case of a fractional exponent, you can think of it as roots. The denominator of the exponent represents the root, while the numerator still represents the power:
- $3^\frac{4}{5}=\sqrt[5]{3^4}$: This represents 3 raised to the power of 4/5, which is the same as the fifth root of 3 raised to the power of 4.

Some general properties of exponential functions include:
1. $b^0 = 1$ for $b\ne0$: Regardless of what the base number is, if it is raised to the power of 0, the value will always be 1.
2. $b^{x+y} = b^x \cdot b^y$: Adding the powers is equivalent to multiplying the base number raised to those powers.
3. $(b^x)^y = b^{xy}$: When you have power of power, you multiply the exponents.
4. $\frac{b^x}{b^y} = b^{x-y}$: When dividing equal bases, it's equivalent to subtracting the exponents.
5. $(b^x)^y = b^{xy}$: The power of a power property means you multiply the exponents.

### Exponentials and logs
Exponentials and logarithms are closely related as they are inverse operations. The following are some basic properties of logarithms:
1. $log_{b}1=0$: The logarithm base b of 1 is always 0. This follows from the property $b^0 = 1$.
2. $log_b(xy) = log_bx + log_by$: Logarithm of a product is equal to the sum of the logarithms of the individual numbers.
3. $log_b(\frac{x}{y}) = log_bx - log_by$: Logarithm of a quotient is equal to the logarithm of the top number minus the logarithm of the bottom number.
#### How $log$ works
To understand how logarithms work, think of them as asking the question: what power must we raise this number to, in order to get that number? For example: 

- $3^2 = 9$, can be asked as "3 to what power equals 9?" The answer is $2 = log_39$: 2 equals the logarithm base 3 of 9.
- $2^5 = 32$, can be asked as "2 to what power equals 32?" The answer is $5 = log_2{32}$: 5 equals the logarithm base 2 of 32.